TiDB Cloud CLI New (#17056)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/ticloud-import-start.md

---
title: ticloud serverless import start

> summary: The reference of `ticloud serverless import start`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: The reference of `ticloud serverless import start`.
aliases: ['/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-local', '/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-mysql, '/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-s3']
```

---

> # ticloud serverless import start local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ticloud serverless import start
```

> aliases: ['/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-local', '/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-mysql, '/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-s3']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aliases: ['/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-local','/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-mysql','/tidbcloud/ticloud-import-start-s3']
```

Start a data import task:

```shell
ticloud serverless import start [flags]
```

Or use the following alias command:

```shell
ticloud serverless import create [flags]
```

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, you can only import one CSV file for one import task.

## Examples

Start an import task in interactive mode:

```shell
ticloud serverless import start
```

Start a local import task in non-interactive mode:

```shell
ticloud serverless import start --local.file-path <file-path> --cluster-id <cluster-id> --file-type <file-type> --local.target-database <target-database> --local.target-table <target-table>
```

Start a local import task with custom upload concurrency:

```shell
ticloud serverless import start --local.file-path <file-path> --cluster-id <cluster-id> --file-type <file-type> --local.target-database <target-database> --local.target-table <target-table> --local.concurrency 10
```

> Start an local import task with custom CSV format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start a local import task with custom CSV format:
```

| --local.concurrency int        | Specifies the concurrency for uploading files. The default value is `5`.                                                                               | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.file-path string       | Specifies the path of the local file to be imported.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.target-database string | Specifies the target database to which the data is imported.                                                                                         | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.target-table string    | Specifies the target table to which the data is imported.                                                                                            | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |

> | --local.file-path string       | Specifies the local file path to import the data.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: dup with L59

> | --file-type string             | Specifies the import file type, one of ["CSV"].                                                                                         | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |

Reviewer: 目前只支持 CSV 是吗

Author: yes

> | --file-type string             | Specifies the import file type, one of ["CSV"].                                                                                         | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --file-type string             | Specifies the import file type. Currently, only `CSV` is supported.                                                                                         | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
```

> | -c, --cluster-id string        | Specifies the cluster ID.                                                                                                     | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --source-type string           | The import source type, one of ["LOCAL"]. (default "LOCAL")                                                                   | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --local.concurrency int        | The concurrency for uploading file. (default 5)                                                                               | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --local.file-path string       | The local file path to import.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --local.target-database string | Target database to which import data.                                                                                         | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --local.target-table string    | Target table to which import data.                                                                                            | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --local.file-path string       | The local file path to import.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --file-type string             | The import file type, one of ["CSV"].                                                                                         | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --csv.backslash-escape         | In CSV file whether to parse backslash inside fields as escape characters. (default true)                                     | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --csv.delimiter string         | The delimiter used for quoting of CSV file. (default "\"")                                                                    | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --csv.separator string         | The field separator of CSV file. (default ",")                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | --csv.trim-last-separator      | In CSV file whether to treat separator as the line terminator and trim all trailing separators.                               | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
> | -h, --help                     | Shows help information for this command.                                                                                      | No       | Works in both non-interactive and interactive modes.                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -c, --cluster-id string        | Specifies the cluster ID.                                                                                                     | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --source-type string           | Specifies the import source type. The default value is `LOCAL`.                                                                   | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.concurrency int        | Specifies the concurrency for uploading files. The default value is `5`.                                                                               | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.file-path string       | Specifies the local file path to import.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.target-database string | Specifies the target database to which the data is imported.                                                                                         | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.target-table string    | Specifies the target table to which the data is imported.                                                                                            | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --local.file-path string       | Specifies the local file path to import the data.                                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --file-type string             | Specifies the import file type, one of ["CSV"].                                                                                         | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --csv.backslash-escape         | Specifies whether to parse backslash inside fields as escape characters in a CSV file. The default value is `true`.                                     | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --csv.delimiter string         | Specifies the delimiter used for quoting of a CSV file. The default value is `\`.                                                                    | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --csv.separator string         | Specifies the field separator of a CSV file. The default value is `,`                                                                                | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| --csv.trim-last-separator      | Specifies whether to treat the separator as the line terminator and trim all trailing separators in a CSV file.                               | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                                       |
| -h, --help                     | Shows help information for this command.                                                                                      | No       | Works in both non-interactive and interactive modes.                      |
```
